# npm

[NPM](https://docs.npmjs.com/) stands for node package manager. And like it says, it is a package manager for node.

A **package** is a file or directory that is added via the package.json file. When the install command is run, the corresponding package is added to the `node_modules` folder. Our package.json manages what packages get installed, and ensures that the correct versions and dependencies are downloaded.

Some packages that we need will have a dependency which means, to work they rely on code that lives in another package. To ensure that you never run into a situation where you forget or don't know to load a dependency they are defined in the packages own package.json file and are downloaded when you download the package you need. 

We can also declare dev dependencies, these are packages that we need to develop the site, for example you might be using a scss compiler such as  gulp or a testing framework. This is useful for us as developers but would not be needed for site deployment. In this case we declare this as dev dependencies so they are not included in a production build. Reviewing the package.json file, you should see the different declarations.

```javascript
"name": "my_package",
"version": "1.0.0",
"dependencies": {
  "my_dep": "^1.0.0",
  "another_dep": "~2.2.0"
},
"devDependencies" : {
  "my_test_framework": "^3.1.0".
  "another_dev_dep": "1.0.0 - 1.2.0"
}
```

To save a package as a normal dependency, you would:
```javascript
npm install package-name --save
```

To save a package as a development denpendency, you would:
```javascript
npm install package-name --save-dev
```

Both methods will automatically add the package to your `package.json` file.

You may also notice a `package.lock.json` file in your repository. This is an autogenerated file that should not be manually edited. The purpose of this file is to maintain a history of packages and to avoid the potential issue of different users posessing different installs. It maintains a list of all your packages, similar to `package.json`, but more importantly a list of dependencies for each package. For example, we might install a library such as `npm install my_dep --save`. This package itself will likely be dependent on several other packages.

